Add GSoC report for Harmonic Mixing Enhancements (#356)
mixxxdj/website: content/news/XXXX-XX-XX-gsoc-project-report-daniel-fernandes.md

title: GSoC 2024 Project Report - Harmonic Mixing Enhancements (Part 1)
authors: Daniel Fernandes
status: draft
tags: gsoc, harmonic mixing
comments: yes

## Introduction

This project levels up your Harmonic Mixing workflow in Mixxx by adding these new features to help you find compatible tracks at glance:

1. Color coding the Key column of the track list.
2. Highlights in the BPM column for tracks that have a tempo close to a target track.
3. New Track Similarity Column, which uses the Key and BPM to compute how well two tracks work together.

> We just added the Track Color Coding feature. In this post, I will share what this process was like so far, and where you can try the feature out. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We just added the color code key column feature (1.). In this post, I will share what this process was like so far, and where you can try the feature out. 
```

## Project Planning

> Before diving into the coding, my mentor recommended that we create a plan for the project and solve any open questions that were remaining.

Reviewer: Can we remove this block/integrate it below to come faster to the point. I would not mention my recommendation explicit, because it all was a good creative process of all involved and not at least you.

Author: Done, thank you.

Mixxx was the first real world C++ project I worked on, and I learnt a lot of things that will help me for years to come. I learnt how to make project plans, and keep myself on track. It was specially helpful to break tasks down into smaller tasks, and make "mini-deadlines" for each of them. I learnt to brainstorm with others, and saw how ideas can evolve. On the technical side, I got lots of opportunities to use and understand Git more deeply, and also to navigate through and work on a large codebase.

## Acknowledgements

Mixxx has an amazingly helpful and enthusiastic community behind it, and everyone I've worked with is so awesome!

Firstly, I'd like to thank my mentor [Daniel Schürmann]({author}daniel-schurmann) for guiding me right from the very initial planning and brainstorming stages, and all the way to reviewing and getting the PRs merged. He made sure that I was never stuck on anything, and took great care that things go smoothly. He has been very helpful and supportive!

> I'd like to thank [ronso0](https://github.com/ronso0) for his valuable design ideas and for guiding me with helpful feedback and testing during the code review. I'd also like to thank [Swiftb0y]({author}nikolaus-einhauser) for his valuable feedback and suggestions and for helping me make my code easier to read and efficient.

Reviewer 2: :heart:
